# protein-localization

Approximately 20,000 different human proteins exist to perform specific tasks within a cell’s organelles focused on building, repairing, and giving signals needed for the body to survive. However, the majority of proteins have yet to be catalogued into a classification system due to lack of knowledge of their subcellular localizations. In 2018, consumer medications targeted only 3% of all proteins. These targeted proteins can occur in multiple areas of the body, damaging non-targeted regions in the form of side effects. This project focused on the development of a deep learning algorithm capable of classification of all possible subcellular localizations of unknown proteins based on fluorescent microscope image data. The classification model used a 34-layers-deep residual neural network for transfer learning. Many training parameters were optimized to deal with the image input, and the model performance was validated using 10-fold cross-validation. The resulting framework takes RGBY image input and produces a CSV file with predicted labels for the aforementioned images. The model was tested on 120,000 additional images and reached an F1 score of 79%, resulting in a 10% improvement over the previous state-of-the-art classifier developed by the Human Protein Atlas. Its ease-of-use and robustness are also improved over other technologies such as CellProfiler. This algorithm can facilitate the mapping of the human proteome, which could lead to developing more target-specific medications, nullifying harmful side effects caused by mislocalization of proteins, and allowing for earlier diagnoses of disease such as certain types of cancers and genetic disorders.

For more details, feel free to check out the PDF labelled "Project Report" in the repo!
